So what I wanted to show you
in this last video about the project
is that we can actually create our own module
and export something from them like for example a function.
Then import this function into another module
and then use that function there.
Okay, and so that is what we're gonna do in this lecture.
So let's say that we actually had
a bunch of different JavaScript files
in which we used this replace template function.
So right now we're just using it here in index.js.
We use it twice and that is why we have a function,
but imagine if we wanted to use this function
in multiple files.
Okay, so what we can do is to create a new module
and export that function from it
and then import it back here.
So, the first thing that you need to know
is that in Nodejs
actually every single file is treated as a module.
And so this index.js here actually is also a module,
which in this case imports other modules
and particularly these three.
Let's now create a new folder here,
which I'm gonna call modules
and then in here
I'm gonna create a file
which will be our module called replaceTemplate.js.
Okay, so let's grab our function here.
Actually, cut it out from here
and simply paste it here.
All right, now how do we actually export this function
from this module?
Well, there are different ways of exporting something
from a module
and we're gonna talk in depth
about all of this in another section later on.
But for now
all we're gonna do is to use module.export.
So in each module,
we have access to a variable called module
and on there we can set the export's property.
And that we then set to whatever we wanna export.
In this case, that is just this function.
So we're gonna get rid of this name
and so basically
what we're gonna assign to this export property on module
is simply this anonymous function.
I said anonymous
because right now this function does not have a name.
And so it's just an anonymous function
to be assigned to this export property
on the module object.
Again, that is an object that we have access to
in each and every Nodejs module.
And again,
later on you will learn
how that actually happens behind the scenes.
But for now,
let's just use it
and don't worry about why it works this way.
So this exports this function from the module.
Let's just go to index.js and import it.
And imports usually always happen at the top of the file
and after the core modules.
First, we have the core modules
and then we have our own modules.
We will do require and then our own module,
which is dot...
And remember in the require function,
the dot actually means the current location of this module.
So remember when we talked about the dir name variable here,
which is usually the one that points to the module's folder.
But in this case in the require function,
remember there is an exception
where this dot actually points to the location
where this module is in.
And so right now,
that is this root folder here.
And so from here we go to modules
and then in there we have replaceTemplate.
And again,
just as with the other modules,
we don't need the .js.
Now that is gonna return what we exported here
with module.exports.
What we have here, this code, this function,
is what will be exported from this require function call.
And so we can now save that into any variable
and give it a name that we want.
So we could just call it X if we wanted
or really whatever we wanted.
But instead I am just giving it this name
that we already had here
so that I don't have to change my code here.
So replaceTemplate is the name
that I wanna give to this variable
which is now this function.
And just like this,
we exported something from one module
and imported it into another one.
And so now if we restart our server,
everything should still be working.
But it actually does not.
We have some kind of error here.
And it says it cannot find the module.
And that's because I was stupid enough
to call this folder here modules.js.
I am sorry for that.
This one is of course
only supposed to be called modules.
And that's why it wasn't giving me the auto-complete here.
I was wondering why that was.
And now we know.
If it doesn't work for you,
just change the name here of this folder
and then everything should match and work as it should.
Let's reload and it still replaces everything as it should.
The same here of course.
And so yeah, we are now done with this project.
Congratulations, well done.
You are well on your way of learning Nodejs.
Now in the rest of the section
we're gonna talk a little bit
about the node package manager or npm.
And so we're gonna keep working a little bit
with this project
but not really adding any functionality.
Anyway, see you in the next video
where we're gonna start talking about npm.